# Developing for the Red Hat Developer Design Manual Site

__Note: If you have not already done so, complete the [SETUP GUIDE](SETUP.md).__

## Structure

Following the accepted Jekyll configurations, the Developer Manual directory is setup as follows:

```bash
/_data # Data files used for the navigations
/_includes # Site includes
  | /sidenavs # Various side navigations for pages
/_layouts # Site layouts
/_posts
/_sass
/admin # Netlify configuration directory
/assets # Site specific images, JS files & font files
/brand-assets # image assets for the Brand Team
/developers.redhat.com # git submodule
/docs # Generated by Gulp scripts
/guides # Documents for the site
/help # Helpful documents
/pages # Various pages that make up the site
  | /components
  | /design
  | /docs
  | /examples
  | /getting-started
  | /layouts
  | /pages
/scripts # Various scripts for the site
/styles # Styles for customizing the Design Manual
  | /partials
  | main.scss # Pulls in Design Manual site specific styles
  | rhdp.scss # Pulls in developer.redhat.com styles
```

## Building the Project

After you have completed the steps in the [Setup Guide](SETUP.md), you can now build the site. We have configured it so that you can easily do so with either a script, or a Gulp task.

  - `$ scripts/./development.sh`

    OR

  - `$ gulp buildLocal`

When in development mode, Gulp will watch the project folders for changes. Changes to `.scss` files will rebuild the styles and update the `main.css` file under `docs/assets/`. Changes to any Markdown (`.md`) or HTML (`.html`) files will kick off the Jekyll Build process, updating the files under `docs/`.

To view the site locally, navigate to [localhost:4000/design-manual/](http://localhost:4000/design-manual/).

----
## Page construction

Each page under is built using Jekyll Frontmatter. Due to the size and complexity of this site, we use multiple variations of the Frontmatter in order to properly sort and render the various examples and documentation.

```markdown
---
layout: pages
title: Articles
permalink: /pages/articles
section: pages
intro_paragraph: >

---
```

Options for __layout__, __permalink__, and __section__ vary depending on where the file is located. The __intro_paragraph__ is optional and only used when you want to insert an introductory piece to a page.

 - __Layout and Section__
The options __layout__ and __section__ should match, as they define both the proper layout for the page, as well as where it is located. The __section__ option is used for setting the top-level navigation, as well as grouping pages.

 - __Permalink__
The __permalink__ option defines the link used to navigate to the page. This is matched with the `URL` field in the proper `_data/**.yml` file.

 - __Intro Paragraph__
The __intro_paragraph__ is an optional piece and used when you need to add additional information to the top of the page that is separate from the main content. It is presented as a callout, so that users will see it as separate content.

----
## Browser support

The Design Manual is supported on the latest version of the following browsers:

 - Chrome
 - Firefox
 - Safari
 - Edge (Chromium)
