# Developing for the Red Hat Developer Design Manual Site

__Note: If you have not already done so, complete the [SETUP GUIDE](SETUP.md).__

## Structure

Following the accepted Jekyll configurations, the Developer Manual directory is setup as follows:

```bash
/_data # Data files used for the navigations
/_includes # Site includes
  | /sidenavs # Various side navigations for pages
/_layouts # Site layouts
/_posts
/_sass
/admin # Netlify configuration directory
/assets # Site specific images, JS files & font files
/brand-assets # image assets for the Brand Team
/docs # Generated by Gulp scripts
/guides # Documents for the site
/help # Helpful documents
/pages # Various pages that make up the site
  | /components
  | /design
  | /docs
  | /examples
  | /getting-started
  | /layouts
  | /pages
/scripts # Various scripts for the site
/styles # Styles for customizing the Design Manual
  | /partials
  | main.scss # Pulls in Design Manual site specific styles
```

## Building the Project

After you have completed the steps in the [Setup Guide](SETUP.md), you can now build the site. We have configured it so that you can easily do so with either a script, or a Gulp task.

  - `$ scripts/./development.sh`

    OR

  - `$ gulp buildLocal`

When in development mode, Gulp will watch the project folders for changes. Changes to `.scss` files will rebuild the styles and update the `main.css` file under `docs/assets/`. Changes to any Markdown (`.md`) or HTML (`.html`) files will kick off the Jekyll Build process, updating the files under `docs/`.

To view the site locally, navigate to [localhost:4000/design-manual/](http://localhost:4000/design-manual/).

----
## Page construction

Each page under is built using Jekyll Frontmatter. Due to the size and complexity of this site, we use multiple variations of the Frontmatter in order to properly sort and render the various examples and documentation.

```markdown
---
layout: pages
title: Articles
permalink: /pages/articles
section: pages
intro_paragraph: >

---
```

Options for __layout__, __permalink__, and __section__ vary depending on where the file is located. The __intro_paragraph__ is optional and only used when you want to insert an introductory piece to a page.

 - __Layout__
The __layout__ option defines what layout the particular page should use. This also sets the type of sidebar (navigation) that the page needs to use, as well as the whether or not any additional components are included.

 - __Section__
The __section__ option is used for setting the top-level navigation (i.e. the section of the site).

 - __Permalink__
The __permalink__ option defines the link used to navigate to the page. This is matched with the `URL` field in the proper `_data/**.yml` file.

- __Custom_js__
The __custom_js__ option defines the JavaScript file that you want to include on the page. These are per-page customizations and are not loaded on every page across the site.

If you do not specific a __custom_js__ variable, then no additional JavaScript files will be loaded.

- __Custom_css__
Like the __custom_js__ variable, the __custom_css__ option defines the additional CSS file that you want to include on the page. These are per-page customizations and are not loaded on every page across the site.

If you do not specific a __custom_css__ variable, then no additional CSS files will be loaded.

 - __Intro Paragraph__
The __intro_paragraph__ is an optional piece and used when you need to add additional information to the top of the page that is separate from the main content. It is presented as a callout, so that users will see it as separate content.

See [Default Frontmatter Example](DEFAULT_FRONTMATTER.md) for additional information and examples.

----
## Browser support

The Design Manual is supported on the latest version of the following browsers:

 - Chrome
 - Firefox
 - Safari
 - Edge (Chromium)
